Documentation of tinker process of programming metaphor:

Initially, I had no idea what to make as a programming metaphor, but I knew there were a lot of things resembling programming. I waited for a week or two, after which inspiration struck. As an autistic person, i really enjoy the deterministic aspect of programming. If you run some code twice, it will always do the same. Also, if you properly read code, you will know what it will do before running it. The same holds for cooking recipes. If a master chef reads a recipe, they can determine whether it will taste good without ever making it. At the same time, if you follow a recipe perfectly twice, you will end up with two identical meals.
A cooking recipe is essentially a set of instructions, just like a program. This is why it should be possible to note down a recipe as if it was a program. For this, I found it important that it would not be too frustrating (as programming can be). Moving a subset of instructions to an earlier or later part of the recipe should be easy, which requires modularity form the metaphor. At the same time, cooking knows a lot of different objects and possible actions, so it would be impossible to make a module for every object or action. This lead me to the idea to use cards as the programming metaphor, as they have the affordance of being moved around easily and you can easily write on cards or make your own cards. 
To create a programming metaphor using cards, I needed to create object cards (for instance courgette) and action cards which interact which these object cards (for instance, cut object x). These would link metaphorically to functions being used on variables. 
Now all that was left was to create a proof of concept, as creating all possible object and action cards would be an impossibly large task. I decided to create a single recipe which I think is really tasty (really, you should try it), and 'forget' some parts. These forgotten carts were the object card for spices and the object card for the content of the pan. These forgotten cards I could scribble on some paper and incorporate them into my programming recipe. Below, photo's of the cards can be found.
Also, I could not help myself to put pictures i found funny on the cards, but now i'll argue this was actually a design choice. As I would like the created programming metaphor to be more fun than actually programming, the funny pictures will hopefully make recipe programming more fun.